OK, let me share my screen.
Yeah, it's visible.
Hey, good. Yeah, good morning everyone.
So to yeah,
Morning.
today I'm going to just cover the various
monitoring tools and like we will compare
the tools along with the purpose and the
case study which we have taken for Nazam.
So we will go 1 by 1.
By one.
Am I audible?
Yep.
You are, yeah.
OK.
Thanks. So Tim,
as you know that monitoring is very
crucial when we are like working either
it's a be it a monolithic applications or
be it a cloud native applications which
involves micro services containerization.
So now what exactly is the monitoring?
And what is the difference between
monitoring and observability that we are
going to like study today?
So first of all,
as you know that monitoring is important
and like first of all the monitoring is
like the process of collecting.
Then analyzing,
then taking the insights from the
valuable informations which we have
received and then acting on it.
So basically this process of data
collection, then data analyzing,
data insights through visual
representations.
And dashboards and then taking the
preventive actions and the reactive
actions also.
So that comes under the scope of
monitoring.
So what is the purpose of monitoring?
Now this monitoring will help you as I
mentioned that when you are dealing with
the complex micro services architecture,
there are multiple services.
Interacting with each other and we don't
like because of the increased complexity
of this communication.
So it is very hard to troubleshoot your
application where exactly is the point of
failure.
Hold on.
So in such cases while like dealing with
this troubleshooting when beat.
Reported by our implementation team or be
it reported by the customer in the
production environment.
So that helps us you to troubleshoot your
issues or critical bugs.
So then you have to ensure that.
Like sometimes like we the customer
reports the cases like the CPU
utilization is high or the high memory
consumption.
So we have to exact figure out why the
CPU utilization is going high or right
when there is a spikes in the utilization.
So there also.
Comes the main like significance of
monitoring another like you can take like
as I mentioned that you can take some
valuable inputs from the insights which
has come through the logs.
And the various metricses.
So these are the,
I will say the purpose and objective that
we need to go for monitoring.
So now the next like section is like what
are the different types of monitoring
system which we can apply in the
production system.
So the first it can be infrastructure
monitor where you can monitor the
different servers, virtual machines,
containers when it comes with the
Kubernetes.
Then it can be an application level which
is like APM. We can monitor network logs,
network monitor it comes.
Under network monitoring,
then security monitoring,
cloud monitoring.
So these basically these are the types
and business process monitoring.
Now what are the different metricses
which we can track with the help of
monitoring?
So the first is like uptime and downtime.
So ideally the purpose of monitoring is
to make sure that it is whatever the
technical decisions or the technical
implementation you have made,
it should be in aligned with the business
objective. It should meet the.
Service level agreements, SLAS and SLUs,
so which covers like up time and downtime.
We have to ensure that the system is
always up time, right?
It is up and running.
So once you have that monitoring in place
then you can,
I will say you can identify the services
right which needs to be monitored.
You can have the.
Heartbeat or health check with and just
to ensure that the services are up and
running.
So if in case any services goes down then
it you should get some alert and
notification instead of it has an impact
on the business.
So you just by ensuring the health check
you are making that the services are up
and running.
So this comes under the uptime and the
downtime.
So you have to like again in the case of
now business,
right requirement or the business
objective is that the latency should be
minimized,
the response time or the throughput
should be very high, so.
Then next comes as mentioned in the
traditional approach that CPU and memory
utilization that also like we can track
with the help of monitoring network
Mhm.
throughput packet loss that again comes
under errors which you can track and logs
with the help of traces and the requests.
User experiences,
metrics and alerts and threshold.
So basically these are the metricses
which you can track.
What is this app Dix score? App Dix score?
I think, yeah,
it comes under user experience metrics.
We have to check actually what what
exactly. Yeah, more into detail.
I will let you know about this.
Aptic score, yeah.
Yeah, sure. Well, like honestly.
But these are these are these are all
more towards the infra part of it major
majority of them except right.
Mhm.
OK.
Yes, yes, yes.
Because application monitoring will have
a different way to look at.
Correct, correct, yes.
So Appdex is application performance
index. I just googled it out.
Patient.
So it's related to application
application performance index.
What is the application?
Performance index.
Interesting.
And it's part of user experience metrics,
huh?
It's basically oh.
Uh.
Yeah,
it's basically how much time it's taking
Yeah.
and all this stuff.
Response time.
Basically your response time.
OK.
Yep.
Maybe the load also, right?
Maybe how much time it is taking to load
the applications or the user interfaces
that may come? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that's that's how the response time
and how how quickly user can see the you
know kind of performance of the
application.
Yes, interact with the yes interface, yes.
Yeah, very interesting this thing.
Maybe we should include that as the next
thing in our architectural best practices
checks.
It could be a good indicator.
6.
So we have it Amit in our list.
We have this in a different areas like
for you know database query we have also
kind of a response time as a one of the
Hmm.
You got it. Yeah. Yeah, no, no,
I understand.
checklist even in API.
So what what I'm saying is abdex as such.
See, it's like, you know,
if somebody has created a framework for
this,
they must have thought through entire
thing.
Uh, then yes.
So we can just understand if there is a,
you know,
defined metric to kind of measure this so
that we can include it.
I know we we are doing,
I think performance is one of the thing
Yes, yeah.
that we have of course you you're right.
I'm just checking if this is something
like you know we had that that whatever
well factor you know framework something
like that. So it helps.
Hmm.
Because there's a lot of knowledge and
experience already has gone in creating
this.
So why to reinvent that wheel is what I
Exit.
was thinking. Just check if it's useful.
Good.
Certainly. So yeah,
right now it's more kind of in, you know,
Yeah.
numbers,
but probably in terms of metrics we can
change. So rather than having, you know,
30 seconds, 5 seconds,
Yeah, perfect.
it could be between rating like zero to
five,
what is the rating of the performance?
Perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Makes sense.
Thank you. Thank you, Ajit. OK, continue.
Yeah, I.
Got it.
Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks.
Yeah, Amit, just one thing.
There is a formula to calculate this
OK, that's what I want to know.
aptic score as well.
I so we can have that. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So share that later maybe. Yeah. OK, cool.
Yeah, and uh, yes.
Is Kishor not there today?
Is Kishor on leave or something?
It seems to be offline.
I just checked and I don't get any.
Notification from him that he's not going
to join. Hope things are good.
OK, sure.
OK, sure no worries.
Yeah.
And so team as we like we are heading so
we can check like what are the different
monitoring tools available in the market
and what criteria we can apply to select,
yeah, one of these monitoring tools.
So if we categorize those monitoring
tools, yeah, based on the type,
so Nageos and comes under.
Monitoring for application performance
monitoring you can use Datadog,
App Dynamics, New Relic,
then Azure Monitor and AWS Cloudwatch.
Also for network you can use Solarwinds,
Wireshark, PRTG, Log Management, ELK and.
Stack then for cloud Azure and AWS is the
market leader.
For security we can use Splunk IBM Qradar.
So now I I'm not sure whether like as a
like customer wise or the account wise
what different types of monitoring tools
our like Clarion like has.
That expansion but what I have worked
upon earlier like Datadoc and the one
which we are highlighted here in the
brown so new Datadoc AWS.
So these these are the paid and there is
rest ones are the open sources so be like.
Like I have used Datadog,
I have used Azure Cloud Azure monitoring
and what I like found that Datadog is
very much like advanced visualization.
It has then it has like scalability also
and like it is very helpful in monitoring
your databases.
Queries like if you want to understand
like what queries are impacting the
performance of your application,
what stored it it goes like up to the
very stored procedure level,
granular level where you can troubleshoot
what part of the stored procedure is
causing the performance overhead.
So that is how that Datadog is very
helpful.
So you can monitor different services
infrastructure like as I mentioned
databases with the help of Datadog.
So I was like I was extensively using
this Datadog tool.
Then Azure Application Insights is also
very much important while troubleshooting
the micro services.
An exact point of failure.
So these two are like like I have used to
with it.
Apart from that I'm not sure like whether
our like for monitoring our
infrastructure we generally use just
Nagios.
So just we need like to check at the
Clarion side also what are the different
monitoring tools we are that are in place.
So that is what I yeah need to check then
like as I mentioned the what are the
criterias like for selection of the tool.
So if you would like to have the high
availability,
high scalability advanced vigilation go
for Datadoc when like I think for Nazam
side we are.
We are using Prometheus CS,
Prometheus where it is open source and it
is like integrated with the help of
Grafana to have the visualizations and
the dashboards.
So this the Prometheus and Grafana goes
hand in hand.
Then Nagios is like open source and for
medium scalability and basic
visualization.
Zabbix is again open source,
high scalability, strong visualization.
New Relic is paid.
Generally it is used for application
performance monitoring and advanced for
advanced visualization.
So that is the collection. OK,
that is the selection for the monitoring
Yeah, and just to add,
I think we have PRTG,
tool.
we have got Prometheus,
we have Wazoo is another one that has
OK.
been installed now and Nagios is already
there in our premises basically.
OK.
So if anyone really wants to try it out,
if you need any access to monitor your
Mhm.
servers.
You can ask ID team.
OK. That's good to know. Yes, Amit.
Yeah.
OK, so now what?
What are the basic steps in the
monitoring processes?
As you know that we have to 1st the
collect the data using agents, then APIs.
You have to install those agents on the
virtual machines or on the Kubernetes
just to trace all the logs,
application logs. So once you.
To collect the data you should like like
now as I mentioned that when you are
dealing with the cloud native platforms,
you have different micro services in the
distributed platform.
So now all those logs specific to the
micro services, those are at a.
The virtual machine level or the
container level.
So you need to have a central mechanism
where you can collect all the logs from
the different systems and it will be
placed at a central location so that
comes under the data aggregation.
So once you have collected and aggregated
the data.
Data you have to then now take the
valuable insights, right?
So for getting that insights you have to
analyze the data and show it in the form
of like dashboards and the visualizations
and once like as I mentioned that once
let us say we have observed some like
deviations from.
What is expected?
So you can definitely keep the alerts in
place where you can,
for example if CPU utilization goes high,
so you should have that alert mechanism
to send that alert to the respective
teams to take that action.
Mm-hmm.
Criteria for selecting this, this,
this criteria for selecting the
monitoring tool like as scalability then
up cost also is very important because
some tools are very costly like Datadog
so that you have to check first while
selecting the monitoring tool.
Then ease of integrations like what is
the capability,
visualization capability that tool
provides.
So basically these three 3-4 are the very
crucial like as I mentioned that
scalability then it should allow you to
extend your infrastructure right when you
want to monitor if number of
infrastructure.
Was increasing.
So you that tool should have that
capability to configure the Uh newly
added infrastructure for monitoring.
So then it should have the good
visualization capability in the form of
And.
dashboards. Uh then uh.
Cost is very important while selecting
the monitoring tool and again the
community.
If it is in open source how you can it
will be supported by the community for
any new add-ons.
Now let us say now I will just give two
differences between what?
Exactly is the monitoring and what is the
observability and what is the difference.
So basically let us take one case study
where you observe that let us say we have
one e-commerce website and like on Friday
when you observe that there are the
number of usage of that e-commerce system
is very high.
So when our goal is that if there is any
spike in the usage of that site,
you should ensure that the site is up and
running irrespective of even though
number of users are growing.
So that that is our business goal ideally.
So now how to ensure that high?
Like the scalability, Yep in such cases.
So you should have some metrics in place
where if you observe that CPU utilization
goes high,
then we should be able to add new
instances to the to the like to the
system. So that is how that monitoring.
But it will what the action it will take
is that it will increase the
infrastructure right or the instances
based on the usage.
So that that comes under the monitoring
because what exactly it is doing.
So it is just checking if any spikes
happens then it will increase the
instances that is.
That is the,
I will say the reactive approach that
monitoring takes monitoring system take.
But now if you compare this with the
observability,
so consider the observability is like if
monitoring gives you what exactly is to
be done, the observability give you.
Why something could not happen and what
action you should take.
So monitoring refers to what actually you
have to do.
But monitoring observability just ensures
that why it did not happen.
Maybe for example let us now this let us
take another case study where.
Like user,
the scenario is that micro services it
generally observability comes under a
complex system and monitoring comes under
a very traditional or a monolithic
application.
So when there is a distributed system and
the micro services are deployed on the
clouds and they are.
Like hosted on the Kubernetes.
So you need to check like there are
multiple like components or the services
interacting with each other in a
sequential flow for example.
So like for example order order system
right?
So once you place an order then it will
check into the invent.
3 and.
And once it is available,
it will then redirect to the payment
gateway. So in in case for example,
let us understand that the inventory
system is taking somewhat time for five
second to respond.
But now if you have this proper
observability,
so observability is nothing but you are
tracking each and every microservice to
with the help of sensors.
That this how that microservice is
behaving and if any let us say any
dependent microservice will fail,
definitely it will have the impact on the
first microserving or the invoking
microservice.
So you should if you apply let us say
some correlation ID mechanism where you
are tracking each and every request.
Along all these micro services.
So with the help of that correlation ID
you will come to know that this
particular microservice took let us say
this much of amount like because of some
error in the database.
So let us say here in the case of this
case study the inventory is taking some
time.
Because it is like fetching some of the
records from the database and let us say
the database service itself is maybe
itself it is not responding because of
the high processing or CPU caused by the
some another service service B. So now.
It is observed that database something
maybe the database is not like working
properly because of some issues in
another microservice,
but it is having that impact on
microservice A.
So now once we with the help of
correlation ID we track the problem.
Exact point of failure or the exact root
cause is the service B which is causing
problem in database and because of that
the inventory micro services is
responding slow.
So these observabilities give you the
exact cause or the root cause why the
overall system is not functioning
properly and then once.
To.
To identify that this particular service
is causing problem,
maybe you have either revamped the code
in such a way that the database calls are
taking slow,
the stored procedures are executing slow.
So you get that exact point of I will say
the root cause for the misbehavior of
that service.
So that is how where the observability.
Comes into picture and then you can here.
If you observe that here the system is
like working, everything is fine right?
If you just monitor that health checks
and all,
you will find that the other services are
up and running. The CPU is also normal,
but you don't know exactly where exactly
is causing that.
Problem.
So observability helps you to
troubleshoot more with the help of
correlation ID and all.
So that is where the observability plays
a like significant role instead of
monitoring.
Makes sense.
OK. This emerging trends in monitoring,
these are the latest trends.
I will say AIML based predictive
monitoring we we can apply then
observability platforms just we discussed
automation maybe what yeah if we can
automate some of the.
Processes in this troubleshooting so that
is a that comes under the automation and
the self healing systems,
cloud native container monitoring,
age computing and IoT monitoring.
So these are the emerging trends in
monitoring.
OK,
challenges data overloaded like there
since we are having millions of logs.
So we like the main challenge is like how
to deal with this huge volumes of data
and how to keep the backup of this.
So that is a challenge then complexity of
integration with cloud native systems and
Microsoft.
Services for the distributed architecture
then cost management again it comes yeah
because of the like advanced capabilities
then tools may go at a higher cost side
so that also we need to check so as.
Then log analytic workspace.
It comes under the Azure actually Azure
site where are the different types of
logs be it let us say HTTP.
If you want to track the request incoming
request where those are coming then what
are the different maybe like external?
Calls like database calls, exceptions,
traces so which you can like I will store
in the log analytics workspace.
So that is comes under the Azure
Application Insights and Azure Monitoring.
OK, so yeah,
now let us go to one case study which we
applied for Nazam for.
Mm-hmm.
So, OK,
we're in the discussion with the Nazam
customer and what we observe these are
the pin points which yeah Nazam is facing
currently. So like.
Let us say OK,
So what one use case we observed here is
that the rabbit MQ we had used the rabbit
MQ for asynchronous communication between
the multiple services and one scenario
was that one exchange was I think
accidentally deleted.
In the corporate fleet I believe and then
but it was though it was deleted because
of that exchange deletion the I will say
the messages that suppose that that were
supposed to be consumed by the worker
application so that since the.
The exchange was itself deleted.
The worker was unable to retrieve all the
messages from the rabbit MQ and then
process it for the corporate fleet and
that issue was like ongoing and it did
not bring into notice because there was a
lack of monitoring or the.
The team was not properly having any
heartbeat or health check mechanism.
So like it was,
it was having a direct impact on the
business because if you're let us say the
messages are not consumed by the worker
Mm.
application,
so it was like just it was residing into
Face.
the database but no action was being
taken.
So that's why the volume of that data was
increasing and I I was told that it was
like since last three to four months that
those logs or the messages are still kept
in the database without any processing.
So then we after 3-4 months we came to
Mm.
know that this is the problem.
Now we thought that if we could have got
some alert.
Right. That this, for example,
this number of volumes of data which are
unprocessed,
those are growing more than what we
expect on a daily basis.
So if we could have such a mechanism in
place in the form of alert,
so definitely we could have yet taken
that action at the earlier stages.
Instead of maybe reported by the customer.
So such there was this actual real time
case we observed.
Then the another use case was that
sometimes we observe that the hang fire
job itself is sometimes maybe it is down
and the hang fire services are stopped
but we are unable to.
No at a earlier stage.
So because there is no any like maybe
health check we are applied at the hang
fire level.
So whether we we don't know with that
hang fire is up and not then then on
Hmm.
maybe and at some point of day we just go
to that server and observe that oh this
hang fire, this hang fire service is down.
Then we manually go and start it.
So that is also another problem which we
Hmm.
face.
So that let us say these two cases where
the real time we faced for Nazam and for
what now what we decided is that let us
say for example if we have some this is
the architecture diagram which.
Like we prepared along with Tushar Yusuf.
So you can see that this is,
I will say the approach we can take.
We can categorize this in three sections.
OK.
The first as you observed here is that
these are the different endpoints, OK,
be it a rabbit MQ, be it a APG proxy,
be it a.
Signal R and the API endpoints.
So let us say we will have one.
I will say it's a hill check right where
we will just check whether that rabbit MQ
node is up and running or not,
whether that particular API is, yeah,
functioning properly,
whether all those AP APG proxies are
configured in the APG.
Level or not.
So such kind of health check we can apply
OK just to know that these services are
up and running or not.
Then another I will say that concept is
that heartbeat right as explained in the
case of corporate fleet so.
There was a business failure because of
the deletion of the Rabbit MQ exchange.
The data was already stored in the
database for more than three months.
So if we can monitor the business
failures by going through the database
transaction system,
let us say the conflict.
You.
Its own transaction database and it is
having the transaction table.
So if we can check those transaction
table volumes and if we identify that it
is deviating from the standard case,
so you can use that heartbeat mechanism
which will check all those database
transaction system every let us say one
hour and we can identify.
A deviation with the help of this
heartbeat.
This is the second use case where we can
use the heartbeat.
The third I will say the scenario is that
the micro services right where
observability comes to and with the help
of the correlation ID you can track each
request. So if you would like to know why.
Some for example this micro services
causing high processing time so you can
with the help of query ID you can track
all those the micro services
communication also.
So these three if you have one let us say
A1 application where you can configure
all these three scenarios and you can
monitor.
Maybe you can fetch all those logs what
we have captured in ELK and with the help
of Prometheus and Grafana,
you can then visually have some valuable
insights and you can take the reactive
actions as well as I mentioned that in
the form of alert or if it is like
related.
To observability so you can again take
some action why exactly some micro
services having some performance
overrides and all so that this is the use
case which we applied for Nasam and now
we will like click and look forward how
we can take it to the next level.
So these are the I will say.
The monitoring the I will say the case
studies which we have like progressed so
far and then we will look forward like
what are the new actions that we can take
by getting these valuable insights from
the monitoring.
So there, yeah,
that's it team from my end. So yeah.
Oh, great.
Thank you. That's good to know, Ajit.
Thanks. Thank you, Ajit.
I think it's really insightful session.
Yes, yes. Welcome, team. Yeah.
Mostly people don't focus on these topics,
so thanks.
Yes, yes,
because DevOps right means mostly we are,
we are from development and
implementation team.
We generally focus on the development
implementation, but operational side,
Exactly.
yeah that that should be collaborated
effectively as well between
implementation and the operational side.
So that's why I just thought that let us
take this, yeah,
this I will say the section of
operational side.
Right.
Of course, of course, yes.
Yep.
Any any questions anybody has any input?
OK. OK. Thank you, Ajit.
Thanks for this presentation. OK, I'll,
Yes, it's welcome team. Yeah. Thanks,
Dilip.
yeah.
Thank you. Thank you, Ajit. Yeah.
Yeah. Thanks. Thanks, Vijay.
OK, now next we'll go with the, you know,
good news session.
So let's start round the table, Ashish.
Yeah.
So the news from my end is nothing in
particular,
just what what the focus releases are
going good.
So that's the thing to be shared. So no,
no major things.
Thanks.
OK, Ajit.
Dilip, yes, I'm good.
Yeah from personal and professional and
But.
as well.
So just looking Tushar was only for a few
days now since he's back so I will be
able to today we are having weekly
meeting so and Yusuf will be able to
communicate with him to just know the.
Road map, yeah,
from the architectural side as well.
Personal side. I'm good, Dilip. Yeah,
my daughter. Actually,
my daughter's birthday was there on last
Sunday, so I could. Yeah, yeah,
Oh, nice.
Mhm.
I so I could not come there to celebrate
with Tushar's housewarming ceremony.
Oh, mm-hmm.
Because of that,
my daughter's birthday was there,
so I had to prepare so.
That's it.
That was the personal Uh one event which
happened at my end.
Yeah, do do you enjoy a lot at your home?
But you've missed many things,
Yes, yes, Miss. Yeah, yes, yes.
right Vijay?
OK. I can go next. OK.
So from professional front,
I think we are good in terms of, you know,
we are learning multiple things from AI
teams and we know people, you know,
we must keep engaged with the internal,
you know,
AI implementation as well As for the
customers.
Things our customer projects.
So it's a good things that we have you
know good pipeline to work upon for AI
team.
There are multiple innovation ideas
coming from a different functions.
So that's a good things and I see the
pipeline for prospect is also very good
for the AI solutions.
So let's give us a good, you know,
road map for the AI team.
So that's a good news from professional
point of view, personal point of view.
I think, yeah, that was, you know,
we all met Vijay, Yusuf come here. We had,
you know, fun at office.
Also we met on Saturday at Tushar's home.
Nice. Ajit,
you can stop sharing the screen.
So it was good.
Better.
So it was good time. Uh,
hope Vijay and Yusuf also enjoyed.
That's good. Nice. Nice to hear that.
Yeah, uh, Kishor, then Mayur,
then Muzaffar.
Sure.
So professional good news is like for RER
we are preparing for second release so we
are in UET phase so that that seems to be
Mm.
a little stable then then the first one
still couple of things here and there but
then yes so that was one and then on
personal front just just next week I'm
having a function at my sister's and so.
Structing couple of relatives at my place
also. So Yep, good, good family time.
I'm looking for a true back. So Yep,
that's it. Thank you.
Yeah, good morning everyone.
So like professional front of view like
From him.
in the DHHD like we have successfully
delivered the first phase and lots from
last week itself we are getting some
feedbacks from the business team.
There are some minor correction or
enhancement that is needed.
But whatever the functionalities that we
have decided as per the user stories and
everything that we have successfully
completed and everything is going good in
that DH and D part,
minor things are there as per the
business feedbacks so that we will work,
we start working on that part.
And another thing is that that for the
Najam public app again we will get to get
chance to work on the report accident
functionalities like recently the Najam
public app is totally revamped in the
Flutter. OK,
so it is not developed by the Clarion
team.
OK.
So it was developed by some other vendors
from the Najam by Najam.
So like we have get a chance to complete
a report accident module like yesterday
itself we had connected with like SDM and
manager regarding that particular
personalities that what we need to.
To do and what are the challenges
currently they are facing in the report
accident modules and why they want us to
work on these particular things and
complete the report accident module as
soon as possible.
So today from today we will start working
on that part and probably it's a very
tight deadline we need to come.
Complete report accident,
complete flow within eight to 10 days
including queue and everything.
So they expecting us to deliver as soon
as possible. Yeah,
so that we will start today working and
yeah and personal front of view,
nothing new,
it's just things are going good and where
seasons are going on.
So we'll attending the marriage of the
Emily's numbers and everything. Yeah,
that's it.
Yeah.
So from my end with the project
perspective,
so as we are doing at critical best
practices,
so we are improving so many things.
So by that the project looks in good
shape with all the different aspect.
And from personal perspective, yeah,
so we had a family function.
So in last week my cousin brother's
marriage we have attended.
So yeah, so that that's the thing from.
OK. Thank you. Thank you,
Muzaffar Praveen Vijay.
Yes, hi team, good morning.
So from professional front there is
nothing in the specific but I'm just
coordinating with the Brahma team to
configure the time sheet application for
staging and there are I think two more
applications we have to set up and create
a build for the staging environment.
And along with that I have initiated like
analysis on unit testing feasibility for
the Brahma project.
So I'm working with Kishor.
Mhm.
So this is the update and nothing is
specific to mention about personal.
And.
Yeah, thanks. From my side actually, yeah,
means it was a really good trip with
meeting everyone in Ahmedabad, Dilip,
Tushar and Pratik, everyone.
So it was a really good trip and and also
I enjoyed with Yusuf after long time we
met.
And again, back to shopping and and yeah,
yeah,
work wise also we finally sent a proposal
to the period client. So and yeah,
That's OK.
Good.
we we were waiting for the feedback so.
Hmm.
It was.
Yeah.
Very nice.
Cool. Are you good? So professional front,
there are actually many of them.
Yeah.
But yeah, Amit, yes.
One is I think Saudi Arabia as such is
showing good intent for some of our AI
initiatives.
I think we've starting the I fund one in
a big way.
The funding,
Microsoft funding is also showing good
progress to Palash, Titvilik,
Sunil and everyone.
The uptick as I mentioned,
we are we are signing up a partnership
and we see good amount of intent problems
for the Arabian market again.
For financial agent API,
so we presented to almost 3-4 prospective
customers and everyone seems to end up
aligned.
So seeing for a good and plus we are
launching an XLQ campaign.
So XLQ partnership is also going good and
that also showing is very.
Positive response.
Apart from that, in terms of personally,
my good news is with my background.
I did a hike last weekend.
It was there's a Fort called Estorna in
Maharashtra. This is so weak.
Climbed up the Torna Fort and then we
walked across the Ridge.
You see the Ridge on the top side.
So we walked alongside that to the other
Fort called as Rajgad.
So it's almost like 12 kilometers trek.
Oh.
Amazing in because it's just finished
raining so it is not too wet.
And quite kind of good sunlight,
clean weather, good jungle. So it was fun.
It was really amazing.
Good a minute. Good.
Select that was personal, yeah.
Yeah.
Good.
Hey, hey.
Cool, OK.
OK, um,
I think we complete with the eject term.
Any anything anyone would like to discuss
or say?
Any other discussion point anybody has?
Mhm.
Who are they?
If you guys can check your own inboxes,
maybe I can just check the Microsoft view.
I think Ashish,
Hmm.
have we completed the Nginx part?
Yes, Amit, I think, uh,
the other part is remaining the DevOps
thing.
Uh, yeah. And and then the the,
I think Rakesh from AWS infrastructure.
Engineering system.
Dilip this video, audio,
language translation that is remaining,
right?
Yeah, it it it seems to be remaining.
I OK.
And and then the liability detection also
I think we've not completed.
Oh.
Then fast optimization of AWS cloud.
I think this is the remaining jug Jagbhan.
OK.
Ashish, can you just check with him?
I'll add you to this.
Sure, sure, sure. I'll check with them.
And then a disarm of high trust is also
not done I think.
Huh. This one is remaining from my.
Right,
so I think I think Nginx is not done.
I don't.
I've not marked it as done because
usually what I do is when it is done,
I mark it as done on the.
Oh.
But I'm not sure, but it was done.
Can you just check?
Can you ping me in that group?
Yes, yes.
Vijay,
have we completed the signal R
scalability?
That is pending. I'll come check with you.
So,
so can you guys just make sure that you
Mhm.
know you follow up with me and we get
this recorded. Usually what I do is I'll,
Yeah, yeah, we'll do it.
Yeah.
I'll just show you how how I mark it.
So once I complete I mark it as done.
So usually I do that.
I think I don't see that done for these.
So you see like.
These are all done, done, done, on hold,
whatever.
And then like Mayuk's guy's done,
this is done.
So these are remaining and and Genx is
not marked as done.
So maybe we need to just check.
Maybe we recorded it and we were to
rerecord it something like that,
maybe because the first one was not
correct or whatever.
Maybe, yeah, yeah,
we can rerecord if required.
The check once up.
I don't know if it is recorded and we
have shared with the marketing team.
I can mark it as done,
but just ping me in that group wherever
it may be. I'm not search for it. Dilip,
I think two things Nimeri and DSOM for
Sure, sure, sure.
Hitus and cost optimization by Rakesh.
This is something that we need to take.
Sorry, disaster recovery of AWS.
This is Jagbhan and Vinita.
Hmm.
So maybe Ashish,
you can check disaster recovery cost
optimization. This is from Jagbhan again.
This is again Jagbhan.
And this one is Rakesh.
I think the study code is up.
There's one for Rakesh.
I'm not sure which was that.
Oh, AWS infrastructure cost saving.
But these two seem to be same cost
optimization of AWS cloud and AWS cost.
So I think maybe we can take it together.
OK, with all three or Rakesh and Jagpal.
So Rakesh, you, me and Jagbhan,
we can do it together.
So if you can just remind them or maybe
create a group and just remind them on
OK, sure.
that, I'll share.
Once you create the group,
I'll share this loop link with them in
that.
OK. Yeah.
Huh. OK, let's get this done.
And any any other podcast that you feel
that are subjects, guys? Muzaffar, Vijay,
Ajit, Kishore.
Praveen.
So if there are any,
please suggest so that we can take it up.
Yeah, means I've added that case study,
not the podcast for blockchain I added.
Sure.
Oh, we can take that, but but no,
that's that's a case study where you have
Enter the.
to implement it.
Yeah.
So that, I mean, let's see,
let's take up something that we've
implemented.
OK.
OK, cool. That's it. I think Dilip,
I don't have anything else right now.
OK. Sure. Thank you. Thank you, Ahmed.
Thank you, everybody. Yeah, so.
Just just to no, no, just a minute.
I think I let me update everyone on what
Yeah. Thanks.
we are doing in Saudi Arabia. Actually,
I think I'm not updated.
I did discuss this with the.
Tech Architects team.
So I just wanted to discuss with everyone
here is guys we are doing one very unique
I think offering in Saudi Arabia market
is what we do is this product based
partnership based offerings.
So we partner Excel Q as you know it's an
AI.
Automation tool testing automation we are
we are already a services partner so that
is 1.
So we are going into market in Saudi
Arabia as XLQ partner and we are offering
these services specifically to all the.
Sama,
which is a Saudi Arabia Monetary
Authority,
Sama funded companies as they are called,
they have a public trust and then public
investment fund PIF funded companies.
So we are approaching them.
We have shortlisted and we are kind of
doing a campaign with them. That is one.
The second is we are targeting to.
Now with a couple called as Uptiq, UPTIQ,
they are into financial agentic AI.
They're already a very successful company
in the US.
They have like multiple financial
institutions have been onboarded.
They have done almost 1 billion
transactions and all that.
So they are very.
Mature and kind of reliable in US Now we
are going into Saudi Arabia as a partner
with them again for this Sama company,
especially for the financial companies.
OK.
So those two are very unique offerings
and like one of the things Vijay which we
Mhm.
may want to kind of take up,
I'm not sure Vijay as Vijay left.
So is about this uptick since it's a
financial agentic AI looks like SAMA
which is a so monetary authority.
As a sandbox in Saudi Arabia and if we
run or execute or implement this tool on
their sandbox successfully,
then it becomes certified by SAMA.
So that's something that we are looking
at and there's there are not many
companies in AI,
in agentic AI in Saudi Arabia and
especially in financial.
So that is a a a greater opportunity.
So these two are very unique ways of
going. We've not,
we've never gone into market with this
kind of an offering.
We've been always saying that we are good
Um.
at testing, we are good at dotnet,
we're good at Python, PHP,
but we never said that OK,
we are a partner with the company and
we're going into the market.
So that's kind of something that you know.
So basically we are trying to go with the
flow because AI is something that we need
to go with the some offering.
We cannot just go, OK,
we know everything in AI.
So that is what we are trying to
capitalize on.
Oh.
Good. Good, Amit. Yep.
Any questions or any, you know,
views or any suggestions,
recommendations from your side?
Summit,
will this partner help us to understand
the product, technology, stakes,
architect, all these things,
They will train, yeah, they will train,
yeah.
they will train us, right? OK.
And so any plan when we are going to
start this training,
how we'll learn it because.
So I am into, yeah,
so I I'm into final stages of you know
Or is it opportunity?
getting the approval from business.
I've done with Sid,
Mm-hmm.
it's already kind of approved and to this
final few things like you know how do we
go to market.
What can we do to, you know,
get business on that all and kind of
prepare that. So Ashish,
this is I think what we need to also do
for Odu. But right now I'm continuing.
I'll share the uptick,
the one that I've created with you so
that you get an idea because you're
working on Odu so you can start thinking
like that on Odu. By the way,
Oh.
OK.
that Motaz guy had.
Called up. So that's another Uh, Uh,
Odu is another Um thing that we are
OK.
trying to get into as a partner,
which Ashish is kind of leading.
OK.
So Amit, once once we onboard this,
so we will be will we be doing the
So yeah.
technical part of that implementation or?
Yeah, implementations,
implementation and integrations with and
OK, so we'll have to build a tree.
implementation of different workflows,
which basically it implements the
workflows and all.
So that's what we need to look at.
Mhm.
OK.
So it would be more like a development or
only the Technical Support part of it?
No, no, no.
See what happens is even though this is a
agent AI,
it needs to connect with lot of other
services, right?
Like take for example yesterday we were
Mhm.
discussing with a prospect perspective
partner who has a bank.
In Oman as a customer and what they're
looking for is what they call as a
correspondence management system for a
bank.
Now correspondence management system in
for a bank means, you know,
anybody who corresponds with the bank,
right? It could be a government agency,
it could be another bank,
it could be customers.
It could be regulatory authorities,
compliance authorities or all that, right?
So anybody could be,
and there could be multiple modes of
communication.
It could be actual physical name,
it could be an e-mail,
it could be a portal,
it could be a chat bot.
It could be a help desk,
it could be anything, right?
Then what they want is correspondence
management system so that any of the any
of these channels you receive something,
we should be able to identify what that
communication is and then route it
through the respective departments,
functions, whatever, you know all the.
And then get an entire feedback and you
know,
give the answer to that and all that,
right? Look for closures and all that.
So right now they're doing it manually.
They want to build a system.
So this uptick agent AI becomes very
useful. So one is the agent AI part.
So you'll need to kind of really.
Prepare the agentic AI or create that
workflow,
but also it needs to integrate with a
portal help desk system.
So as soon as a ticket is created I we
should be able to get it.
So there is an API connection that we
need to build.
Then suppose if we need to send an e-mail
to the you know some function so it needs
to be sent that e-mail and it should wait
for that.
E-mail to come back and as a response so
it should get all the details.
But suppose if it is supposed to call any
of their APIs in their banking system,
we need to call that so that integration
needs to be implemented.
So apart from just customization of the
agent agents,
it's also about the integrations with
other systems.
OK.
It may give a platform to create all this
workflow which.
Absolutely.
And there's so much scope for innovation,
Mhm.
right? Like, you know,
once the basic workflow is working,
so then you get.
So you rather than you spending time in
developing that entire workflow from
scratch, you are ready.
You have got it ready now.
Now you can go to the next level of,
Next to it.
you know, intelligence or.
Intelligence.
Oh.
OK.
That answers. Thanks.
Yeah, sure. Yeah. And and anyone else?
So think about it. You know,
this could be a great solution. I I mean,
I'll share the details with you in terms
of uptick. It's just uptick dot AI.
I think you can go to the website and
find a lot of details.
I just see it.
Once we get the approval,
I'll do an announcement of course.
So that you will know all of it.
Sure.
OK. Thank you. Thank you, Ahmed.
Thank you, everyone. Bye.
Thanks.